Far out in the uncharted backwaters of the unfashionable end of the western
spiral arm of the Galaxy lies a small unregarded yellow sun. Orbiting this at a
distance of roughly ninety-two million miles is an utterly insignificant
little blue green planet whose ape-descended life forms are so amazingly
primitive that they still think digital watches are a pretty neat idea.

This planet has - or rather had - a problem, which was this: most of the people
on it were unhappy for pretty much of the time. Many solutions were suggested
for this problem, but most of these were largely concerned with the movements of
small green pieces of paper, which is odd because on the whole it wasn't the
small green pieces of paper that were unhappy.

And so the problem remained; lots of the people were mean, and most of them were
miserable, even the ones with digital watches.

Many were increasingly of the opinion that they’d all made a big mistake in
coming down from the trees in the first place. And some said that even the trees
had been a bad move, and that no one should ever have left the oceans.

And then, one Thursday, nearly two thousand years after one man had been nailed
to a tree for saying how great it would be to be nice to people for a change,
one girl sitting on her own in a small cafe in Rickmansworth suddenly realized
what it was that had been going wrong all this time, and she finally knew how
the world could be made a good and happy place. This time it was right, it would
work, and no one would have to get nailed to anything.

Sadly, however, before she could get to a phone to tell anyone about it, a
terribly stupid catastrophe occurred, and the idea was lost forever.

This is not her story.

But it is the story of that terrible stupid catastrophe and some of its
consequences.

It is also the story of a book, a book called The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the
Galaxy – not an Earth book, never published on Earth, and until the terrible
catastrophe occurred, never seen or heard of by any Earthman.

Nevertheless, a wholly remarkable book.
